# Coursera Project — Getting-and-Cleaning-Data-Course- Week 4 Project
  

This repository contains the solution for the **Project** of the **Getting and Cleaning Data** course on Coursera, offered by **Johns Hopkins University**. This project is part of the **week 4 assignment** and aims to prepare tidy data
for analysis. The project involves cleaning and transforming raw data collected from accelerometers in smartphones into a tidy data set.

## Project Objective

The goal of this project is to:

1. **Merge** the training and test data sets into one.
2. **Extract** measurements that are related to the mean and standard deviation.
3. **Use descriptive activity names** for each activity.
4. **Label the dataset** with descriptive variable names.
5. **Create a second independent tidy dataset** that contains the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.

## Files Included

- `run_analysis.R`: The main R script that performs all the required data cleaning steps.
- `tidy_data.txt`: The final tidy dataset generated by the script.
- `README.md`: This file, which provides an overview of the project.
- `CodeBook.md`: A file containing detailed information about all the variables and summaries calculated, along with units, and any other relevant information.


## CodeBook

For more detailed information about the variables and transformations, please refer to the `CodeBook.md` file.

## License

This dataset is distributed AS-IS and no responsibility is implied or explicit for its use or misuse. Commercial use is prohibited. For more information about the dataset, please refer to the dataset's [original description](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones).

